I added this throw new error in app.js and to show you what it does, let me go to another place,
to
admin.js, to the controller and change some code there.
In there we of course have plenty of code to for example add a product and we do validate the user input
which is also a form of error prevention or error handling,
we do validate that input in admin.js in the routes folder, there we added all our validation logic.
Now in admin.js, I'm extracting my logic.
Now let me force an error by quickly looking into my database with compass, the graphical user interface
we used before for interacting with the database
and in there, in the shop database,
let's go to products and let me pick up product ID here.
Now when creating a new product, I
will also add _id and I will temporarily import something from the mongoose package
because I want to create a new object id here and I can use mongoose types object id here, pass my object
id and add the new keyword and now I will basically create a new product with an ID that already exists
and therefore this should fail.
Now let me start my application and let's quickly log in with a user here
and add a product and here you can enter anything.
Let's click add product here
and now it will fail,
you've got this infinitely spinning refresh icon
and if you have a look at your code or at the terminal where you ran npm start, you will see that
our server crashed because mongodb threw an error with a duplicate key problem which makes
sense because we added a product with an existing ID and therefore everything crashed.
Now of course this is a constructed scenario but just because I want to ensure that something goes wrong
at this point because now I want to show you how you could handle such a problem.
Now we are logging that error and I can confirm that this catch block
is called by adding console log an error occured. So now if I save this, obviously our node server restarts,
let's add a product again or let's try this again,
it will fail again of course but if I click add product now and I go back to my code, we see an error
occurred here,
so this proves that this catch block gets fired
but that's great because this means that we now have a chance of handling that error.
Now what we could do here of course is we could return some 500 error page,
we could also redirect the user to any other page or we could render the add product page again,
we could even keep the old input and that might make sense if we expect this to be a temporary issue.
So of course we could take our code from validating, copy all that and output it here or
use it here in the catch block, set a status code of 500
which is a code indicating that a server side issue occurred and then we want to return added product
with add product page title, add product in the path,
by the way it should be fixed up there too,
minor thing but make sure that the navigation item is selected.
Editing set to false, has error
can be set to true, the error message we can put our own error message here,
something like database operation failed,
please try again.
Validation errors can be an empty array,
we don't want to put a red border around anything and we want to keep the user input.
If we save this and everything restarts, let's try this another time.
So let's add a new product here
like this
and if I click add product, indeed
now we have a better error handling because now I am returning that same page,
I give the user some error message and the user can try again but of course this here will keep on failing
because we have a fundamental problem in the code.
But if that was a temporary network issue, this might be a fine way of handling this.
Sometimes you got bigger problems though and you don't want to use this solution,
you don't want to return the same page again,
instead you really want to show an error page to show the user something bigger is wrong,
we're working on it but for now you'll probably not be able to continue.
And for such scenarios, I'll add a new view next to my 404.ejs file,
I'll add a 500.ejs file.
We actually already have a view for error handling, the 400 page, 404 page,
now I'll add another page that will render error messages for bigger technical issues,
not for not found routes.
I'll copy the code from 404, include it in 500 and there I will say some error occurred and there may
be some paragraph, we're working on fixing this,
sorry for the inconvenience,
something like that.
You could add anything you want here.
Now we have that 500.ejs route and that might be something you also want to do, in cases where you are
not sure if you will be able to handle this otherwise.
Now to return this 500 page,
I'll go to my error.js
controller and I'll duplicate my get 400 route and add the get 500 action here, with status code 500 we
render the 500.ejs file with a page title of error or whatever you want, path can be /500 and
isAuthenticated,
yeah we use our session information for that.
Now we have get 500,
we just need to add a route for that now.
So let's go to the app.js because in there, I use get 404 for every page, for every middleware that does
not get handled ahead of time.
Now there is one extra route I will add with app get/500,
here I want to use error controller get 500.
So now I define a route like this, /500,
I now just have to make sure that we do redirect to that route
when a 500 error occurs and we want to show that page and therefore in the admin.js in the controller, in the
catch block, I will indeed redirect to /500.
And now if we save that and I try submitting this again, I end up on my 500 error page and this can be
a decent way of handling this for bigger problems.